Machine ID: TBot v14 documentation changes (#27460)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/machine-id/reference/configuration.mdx

description: Configuration reference for Teleport Machine ID.
---

This reference documents the various options that can be configured in `tbot`'s
configuration file. This configuration file offers more control than
configuring `tbot` using CLI parameters alone.

To configure `tbot` to use a configuration file, specify the path with the `-c`

> flag, e.g `tbot -c ./tbot.yaml`.

Reviewer: The command currently breaks across two lines. I would illustrate the example using a `code` snippet.

Author: 50eae9a720

Certain terms are used in this reference and hold a specific meaning:

> - **Artifact**: an item that `tbot` will write to a destination as part of the

Reviewer: Instead of a list of one term, I would rework this into a paragraph that introduces the concept of an artifact. We can make this a list again once we add more keywords.

Author: 1acd5e732b

  process of generating an output. Examples of artifacts include configuration
  files, certificates and cryptographic key material. Usually these will be
  files, but this term is explicitly avoided as a destination may not be a
  filesystem.

> # Configuration v2

Reviewer: Each page should only have one H1 (the title). We should make this an H2.

```suggestion
## Configuration v2
```

From Teleport 14, `tbot` supports the v2 configuration version.

```yaml
# version specifies the version of the configuration file in use. `v2` is the
# most recent and should be used for all new bots. The rest of this example
# is in the `v2` schema.
version: v2

# debug enables verbose logging to stderr. If unspecified, this defaults to
# false.
debug: true

> # auth_server specifies the Proxy or Auth Server that `tbot` should connect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# auth_server specifies the address of the Proxy or Auth Service that `tbot` should connect
```

# `m` (for minutes) or `h` (for hours) suffix. The default value is `20m`.
# This value must be lower than `certificate_ttl`.
# This value is ignored when using `tbot` is running in one-shot mode.
renewal_interval: "20m"

# oneshot configures `tbot` to exit immediately after generating the outputs.
# The default value is `false`. This is useful in ephemeral environments, like
# CI/CD.
oneshot: false

# onboarding is a group of configuration options that control how `tbot` will
# authenticate with the Teleport cluster.
onboarding:
  # token specifies which join token, configured in the Teleport cluster,
  # should be used to join the Teleport cluster.
  #
  # This can also be an absolute path to a file containing the value you wish
  # to be used.
  # File path example:
  # token: /var/lib/teleport/tokenjoin
  token: "00000000000000000000000000000000"

  # join_method must b the join method associated with the specified token
  # above. This should match the value output when creating the bot using
  # `tctl`.
  #
  # Support values include:
  # - `token`
  # - `azure`
  # - `circleci`
  # - `github`
  # - `gitlab`
  # - `iam`
  join_method: "token"

>   # ca_pins are used to validate the identity of the Teleport Auth Server on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # ca_pins are used to validate the identity of the Teleport Auth Service on
```

  # first connect. This should not be specified when using Teleport Cloud or
  # connecting via a Teleport Proxy.
  ca_pins:
    - "(=presets.ca_pin=)"
    - "(=presets.ca_pin=)"

  # ca_path is used to specify where a CA file can be found that can be used to

>   # validate the identity of the Teleport Auth Server on first connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # validate the identity of the Teleport Auth Service on first connect.
```

   --auth-server=auth.example.com:3025
```

it uses a configuration equivalent to the following:

```yaml
auth_server: auth.example.com:3025

onboarding:
  join_method: "token"
  token: "(=presets.tokens.first=)"
  ca_pins:
    - "(=presets.ca_pin=)"

storage:
  type: directory
  path: /var/lib/teleport/bot

outputs:
  - type: identity
    destination:
      type: directory
      path: ./tbot-user
```

## Outputs

Outputs define what actions `tbot` should take when it runs. They describe
what format of certificates should be generated, with what roles and to what
destination they should be written.

There are multiple types of output, select the one that is most appropriate for
your intended use-case.

### `identity`

The `identity` output can be used to authenticate:

> - SSH access to your Teleport nodes, using `tsh`, openssh and tools like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SSH access to your Teleport servers, using `tsh`, openssh and tools like
```

See the [Machine ID with Database Access guide](../guides/databases.mdx)
to see the `database` output used in context.

```yaml
# type specifies the type of the output. For the database output, this will
# always be `database`.
type: database
# service is the name of the database server, as configured in Teleport, that
# the output should generate credentials for. This field must be specified.
service: my-postgres-server
# database is the name of the specific database on the specified database
# server to generate credentials for. This field may not need to be specified
# when using database types that do not have individual databases.
database: my-database
# username is the name of the user on the specified database server to
# generate credentials for. This field may not need to be specified
# when using database types that do not have users.
username: my-user
# format specifies what format the output artifacts should take. If
# unspecified, a sensible default is used. See the table titled "Supported
# formats" below for the full list of supported values.
format: tls

(!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/common-output-config.mdx!)
```

#### Supported formats

> The following values may be provided to the `format` configuration field in
> the `database` output type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can provide the following values to the `format` configuration field in
the `database` output type:
```

- Specifying where an output should write the generated artifacts to.

Destinations come in multiple types, usually the `directory` type will be most
appropriate.

### `directory`

The `directory` destination type stores artifacts as files within a specified
directory. This is usually the correct destination type to use.

```yaml
# type specifies the type of the destination. For the directory destination,
# this will always be `directory`.
type: directory

# path specifies the path to the directory that this destination should write
# to. This directory should already exist, or `tbot init` should be used to
# create it with the correct permissions.
path: /opt/machine-id

# symlinks configures the behaviour of symlink attack prevention.
# Requires Linux 5.6+.
# Supported values:
#   * try-secure (default): Attempt to securely read and write certificates
#     without symlinks, but fall back (with a warning) to insecure read
#     and write if the host doesn't support this.
#   * secure: Attempt to securely read and write certificates, with a hard error
#     if unsupported.
#   * insecure: Quietly allow symlinks in paths.
symlinks: try-secure

> # acls configures ACL setup when `tbot init` is run and revalidation of them

Author: e92453bf59
